.. _argparse-script-topic-type:

################################
Argparse-based script topic type
################################

The argparse-based script topic type helps you create reference documentation for ad hoc Python scripts that are packaged with the LSST Stack and use `argparse` to create their command-line interfaces.
This topic type is a specialization of the :doc:`script-topic-type` that lets you work more efficiently by automatically creating documentation content from your script's `argparse.ArgumentParser` instance.

.. seealso::

   If the script isn't implemented in Python with `argparse`, refer to the more generic :doc:`script-topic-type` instead.

   If the script is actually a command-line task, document it with a :doc:`task topic type <task-topic-type>` instead.

.. _argparse-script-topic-type-template:

Starter template
================

Create a new argparse-based script topic from Slack.\ [#template]_
Open a |dmw-squarebot| and type:

.. code-block:: text

   create file

Then select **Science Pipelines documentation > Script topic (argparse)**.

.. [#template] The argparse-based script topic template is maintained in the `lsst/templates repository`_.

.. _lsst/templates repository: https://github.com/lsst/templates/tree/main/file_templates/argparse_script_topic

For an example script named ``exampleScript.py``, the rendered template looks like this:

.. remote-code-block:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lsst/templates/main/file_templates/argparse_script_topic/exampleScript.py.rst
   :language: rst

The next sections describe the key components of argparse-based script topics.

.. _argparse-script-topic-type-filename:

File name and location
======================

The file must be named after the command-line executable, including any extension.
For example, if the script is named ``myScript.py``, the topic's file should be named ``myScript.py.rst``.

The file should be located in the :file:`scripts/` subdirectory of the :ref:`module documentation directory <docdir-module-doc-directories>` within a package.

For example, if the module’s namespace is ``lsst.example``, the full path for the file within the package repository is :file:`doc/lsst.example/scripts/myScript.py.rst`.

.. _argparse-script-topic-autoprogram:

The autoprogram directive
=========================

Everything in an argparse-based script topic is generated from a single autoprogram_ directive, which is provided by the `sphinxcontrib.autoprogram`_ Sphinx extension.
autoprogram_ generates all the content that is described by the :doc:`script topic type <script-topic-type>`, including the program_ and option_ directives for cross-referencing.

To use the autoprogram_ directive, your script needs to be set up in a particular fashion:

- The script needs to be in the ``bin.src`` directory of a package, but the script file must defer its implementation to a module *inside* the package's Python modules.

  For example, a script file :file:`bin.src/exampleScript.py` might be structured like this:

  .. code-block:: python

     #! /usr/bin/env python

     from lsst.example.scripts.exampleScript import main


     if __name__ == "__main__":
         main()

- The `argparse.ArgumentParser` instance must be generated by an argument-less function.
  This is critical for letting the autoprogram_ directive get a copy of the `~argparse.ArgumentParser` instance to introspect the command-line interface:

  .. code-block:: python

     """Example script that is automatically documented.
     """

     from argparse import ArgumentParser


     def build_argparser():
         parser = ArgumentParser(
            description=__doc__,
            formatter_class=argparse.RawDescriptionHelpFormatter,
            epilog='More information is available at https://pipelines.lsst.io.')
         )
         parser.add_argument(
            'message'
            help='Message to echo.'
         )
         return parser


     def main():
         args = build_argparser().parse_args()
         print(args.message)

  In this example, the ``build_argparser()`` function generates the `~argparse.ArgumentParser` instance.

The argument to the autoprogram_ directive points to the function in your script's implementation that generates the `~argparse.ArgumentParser` instance.
The argument is formatted as ``{module}:{function}()``, with a colon (``:``) separating the module from the function name.
Given the above example, the autoprogram_ directive is written as:

.. code-block:: rst

   .. autoprogram:: lsst.example.scripts.exampleScript:build_argparser()
      :prog: exampleScript.py
      :groups:

Set the ``:prog:`` field to the name of the command-line executable.
If you already set the ``prog`` argument in `argparse.ArgumentParser`, this field is not necessary.

Also, the ``:groups:`` field ensures that documentation is organized around argument groups (see `argparse.ArgumentParser.add_argument_group`), if they exist.

For more information about the autoprogram_ directive, refer to the sphinxcontrib.autoprogram_ documentation.

.. _autoprogram:
.. _sphinxcontrib.autoprogram: https://sphinxcontrib-autoprogram.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
.. _program: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/domains.html#directive-program
.. _option: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/domains.html#directive-option
